to see wild animals you can go to your
local zoo but to see animals in the wild
you sometimes have to go to extremes and
here on the ice floes of Canada's
magdalen islands it's about as extreme
as you can get extremely cold that is
but upfront and very personal with baby
harp seals otherwise known as white
coats it's a unique white life
experience it's very fantastic you're
you're in the a nursery ground for fur
seals you know nowhere else on earth can
you do something like that it's only
possible because winter pack ice forms
in the Gulf of sand Lawrence
each year around the end of February
thousands of pregnant harp seals haul
themselves out of the water onto the ice
they'll find some roughly contoured ice
that provide shelter from the frigid
winds and give birth when they're first
born the harp seals are yellowish and
very skinny they start putting our fat
very rapidly they grow about two
kilograms per day the pups have less
than two weeks with their mother and for
tourists these two weeks provide a
unique vacation that starts on the
island of Ko moon
the French name for the archipelago in
the province of Quebec is olysio de la
Madeleine the islands are about a
two-hour flight from Montreal extremely
popular with tourists in the summer
months they can be spectacularly
beautiful in winter
the Islanders provide a variety of
excursions including tours by helicopter
and dog sledding for your winter seal
excursion you'll be outfitted with big
boots and orange suits that float in the
unlikely event that you fall into the
water and what the clothes lack in
fashion they make up for in warmth the
package is a minimum of three days to
guarantee a trip to the seals and
includes accommodation meals equipment
guide and the helicopter flight to the
ice fields and experience in itself
first thing you should do when you get
there is take it all in you know the
landscape the scenery is totally
different your own sea ice the the noise
the wind blowing the seals crying yet
the atmosphere first and then start
taking pictures if you want but just
enjoy the first half hour is worth it it
takes that long to realize you're
standing on an enormous floating island
of ice and it's moving and melting since
7:00 this morning we've drifted about
five nautical miles and we're always
moving in the wind is the main factor
that tire that pushes us most people are
not used to the eye so usually they
stick with the guide for the first hour
or so then they get a little bit more
Courage's and they go away so we
recommend that people always carry a
stick or ski pole and walk very safely
guides introduce you to the white coats
they are so cute it's easy to forget
they're wild and that your presence
might be stressful
Yukie very much on on what the female is
telling you and if she gets upset she
starts to put her head up and to make a
certain noise and we should back off the
pups you can touch but don't move them
very far and the mother still has to
come back to find them so spend a little
bit of time with them and then move on
to you sort of spread the disturbance
out over the whole group with as many as
2,000 adult females per square kilometer
you can't help wondering how the mothers
know where their pups are and that seems
to be a combination of initially smell
and then also the the pups cries so
between the two of those they can figure
out which is their pup so even if they
come up from a different hole and they
have to go an extra few meters across
the ice they can usually find their pup
mothers come out on the ice to feed
their pups and the male's splash around
anticipating the start of the mating
season I find it interesting that people
can enjoy and appreciate those animals
see I come back every year it's always a
great feeling for me it's a place I
wouldn't want to miss every March
for more information visit our web site
on top of the world net